Annual deaths related to firearms in the United States: 29,000. Annual deaths related to prescription drugs: 32,000. Annual deaths related to alcohol: 85,000. Related to tobacco: 435,000. Marijuana? 0. Not a single case of death ever recorded in the United States, or even the world has been attributed to the use of marijuana. But there must be a reason for it's prohibition and criminalization, correct?

It must be to stop the kids (17 and younger) from doing these drugs, right? Apparently not. "Marijuana appears to be readily available to almost all 12th graders; in 2005 86% reported that they think it would be 'very easy' or 'fairly easy' for them to get it -- almost twice the number who reported ever having used it (45%).
"After marijuana, 12th-grade students indicated that amphetamines are among the easiest drugs to obtain (51%)."

What this implies though, the fact that marijuana is illegal, in which users have to obtain their marijuana from a black market, a 'dealer' if you will, have been shown amphetamines as well. Which if they were in a regulated fashion, they would not be exposed to such 'hard drugs'. In fact, if you smoke an entire marijuana cigarette, it still shows up in your system after 28 days of smoking. However, in hard drugs like crystal meth, you can take the drug and after a long weekend it will be out of your system. What sort of message is that sending? Paraphrasing, if you smoke a blunt you are more likely to get in trouble than if you slam some meth. But that's doing the trick, right?

Wrong, in fact 97 million Americans have claimed to have used marijuana. But if 97 million America, a significant amount of our nation have used the 'addictive, life changing' drug, why is it that we have such significant amount of a working class people? Maybe the ones that _didn't_ smoke are the ones who don't have the jobs. But that's just assuming. Take your own regarding that one.

One thing that most people believe is that marijuana kills brain cells, which is in fact, a myth. "The original basis of this claim was a report that, upon postmortem examinations, structural changes in several brain regions were found in two rhesus monkeys exposed to THC. Because these changes primarily involved the hippocampus, a cortical brain region known to play an important role in learning and memory, this finding suggested possible negative consequences for human marijuana users." "In the most recently published study, rhesus monkeys were exposed through face-mask inhalation to the smoke equivalent of four to five joints per day for one year. When sacrificed seven months later, there was no observed alteration of hippocampal architecture, cell size, cell number, or synaptic configuration"

Although it may not have deaths related to it, it must have some unhealthy attributes to it though, right? Again, wrong. "Tetrahydrocannabinol is a very safe drug. Laboratory animals (rats, mice, dogs, monkeys) can tolerate doses of up to 1,000 mg/kg (milligrams per kilogram). This would be equivalent to a 70 kg person swallowing 70 grams of the drug -- about 5,000 times more than is required to produce a high. Despite the widespread illicit use of cannabis there are very few if any instances of people dying from an overdose. In Britain, official government statistics listed five deaths from cannabis in the period 1993-1995 but on closer examination these proved to have been deaths due to inhalation of vomit that could not be directly attributed to cannabis (House of Lords Report, 1998). By comparison with other commonly used recreational drugs these statistics are impressive."

It seems you're running out of questions. I'll help you out though, it isn't addictive, especially compared to legally distributable drugs such as alcohol, caffeine, nicotine, and other prescription drugs. However, it can be considered habitual, meaning if you smoke everyday for a year and you stop smoking, you will notice a difference. If you smoke a cigarette everyday, though, you will feel an immense amount of withdrawal.

Another question to ask is, "what about the gateway theory?". That is to say, once you try marijuana, you'll want to try other hard drugs as well. The only proof of this is because of the prohibition of marijuana, that crack dealers happen to sell marijuana on the side or vice versa. This exposure makes it seem like it'd be okay to try it as well. However, there is only 1 cocaine user for ever 104 marijuana users and less than 1 heroin user for the same amount of marijuana users which is less than .96%. Not even 1%.

However if you compare two cities, such as Amsterdam and San Francisco (one where it is legal and one where it wasn't at the time of recording) you can see that in Amsterdam it has a prodigious amount less than San Fransisco in the amount of cocaine, crack, amphetamines, ecstasy, and opiate usage.

So if this plant is worth more ounce-per-ounce than gold, isn't addictive, harmful, or a gateway then why is it still illegal? One might claim that it may be because government officials realize if they come out and say that marijuana isn't harmful for you then they would be considered a liar. This only leaves the average citizen to take their stance on what is right.

But why would they? All it does is make you think and cures or stabilizes several illnesses. Oh, I forgot to mention that. Many organizations have favorable positions (e.g., unimpeded research) on medical marijuana. These groups include: The Institute of Medicine, The American Cancer Society; American Medical Association; American Nurses Association; Australian Commonwealth Department of Human Services and Health; California Medical Association; Federation of American Scientists; Florida Medical Association; and the National Academy of Sciences.

"The evidence is overwhelming that marijuana can relieve certain types of pain, nausea, vomiting and other symptoms caused by such illnesses as multiple sclerosis, cancer and AIDS -- or by the harsh drugs sometimes used to treat them. And it can do so with remarkable safety. Indeed, marijuana is less toxic than many of the drugs that physicians prescribe every day."

-Joycelyn Elders, MD wrote in a Mar. 26, 2004 editorial published in the Providence Journal:

"It is a sad commentary on the state of modern medicine -- and US drug policy -- that we still need 'proof' of something that medicine has known for 5,000 years. [...]

Marijuana is effective at relieving nausea and vomiting, spasticity, appetite loss, certain types of pain, and other debilitating symptoms. And it is extraordinarily safe -- safer than most medicines prescribed every day. If marijuana were a new discovery rather than a well-known substance carrying cultural and political baggage, it would be hailed as a wonder drug."

-Lester Grinspoon, MD, Emeritus Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, wrote in a Mar. 1, 2007 editorial in theBoston Globe titled "Marijuana as Wonder Drug"

"Research into the analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects of cannabis continued to bolster the case for the medicinal use of marijuana, making the 'patient pot laws' that have passed in 11 states seem less like a social movement than a legitimate medical trend."

-TIME magazine wrote in a Dec. 5, 2005 article "The Year in Medicine"

"I believe that a federal policy that prohibits physicians from alleviating suffering by prescribing marijuana for seriously ill patients is misguided, heavy-handed, and inhumane. Marijuana may have long-term adverse effects and its use may presage serious addictions, but neither long-term side effects nor addiction is a relevant issue in such patients.

It is also hypocritical to forbid physicians to prescribe marijuana while permitting them to use morphine and meperidine to relieve extreme dyspnea and pain. With both these drugs the difference between the dose that relieves symptoms and the dose that hastens death is very narrow; by contrast, there is no risk of death from smoking marijuana. To demand evidence of therapeutic efficacy is equally hypocritical. The noxious sensations that patients experience are extremely difficult to quantify in controlled experiments.
What really counts for a therapy with this kind of safety margin is whether a seriously ill patient feels relief as a result of the intervention, not whether a controlled trial 'proves' its efficacy."

-Jerome Kassirer, MD, Editor of the New England Journal of Medicine, wrote about marijuana's medical value in the journal's Jan. 30, 1997 editorial

"Proven medicinal uses of marijuana include alleviation of some of the most debilitating symptoms of AIDS, including pain, wasting, and nausea. These benefits also improve the quality of life for patients with cancer, with MS, and other severe medical conditions."

-Nancy Pelosi, Congressional Representative (D-CA) at the time of the quote, said in her official "Statement in Support of Hinchey Amendment to Allow the Use of Marijuana for Medicinal Purposes" to the U.S. House of Representatives on July 18, 2001

Thus I see no need for the prohibition of marijuana. It could save our economy, it could make America a better place to live in, and it would most importantly cure some very sick people.

For more on drug war facts:
http://www.drugwarfacts.org/cms/

For more on marijuana myths: http://www.druglibrary.org/Schaffer/hemp/general/mjmyth/Exposing_index_1095.html

For more on medical uses:
http://norml.org/index.cfm?Group_ID=7002

A movie I highly recommend to anyone that wants to learn facts about marijuana:
http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-9077214414651731007

Sources:
http://www.drugwarfacts.org/cms/?q=node/30
http://www.drugwarfacts.org/cms/?q=node/53
http://www.drugwarfacts.org/cms/?q=node/28
http://www.talkleft.com/story/2004/05/18/601/89840
http://www.drugwarfacts.org/cms/?q=node/54